fpl/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: FPL Data Access
description: Accesses comprehensive data from the Fantasy Premier League API, covering general game statistics (teams, players, gameweeks) and specific FPL manager entry details (history, transfers, picks).
tags:
    - FPL
    - Fantasy Premier League
    - Football
usage: |
    This skill provides access to multiple Python scripts for retrieving Fantasy Premier League (FPL) data. The AI agent should select the appropriate script based on the user's request. All outputs are in JSON format.
examples:
    - "Get all FPL teams"
    - "Show me all players with a price between 7.0m and 9.0m"
    - "Find midfielders from Liverpool"
    - "What are the details for Gameweek 18?"
    - "What's the overall rank for FPL team ID 2359318?"
    - "Show me the transfer history for my FPL team (ID 12345)"
    - "What players did FPL team 2359318 pick in Gameweek 24?"
    - "Force a refresh of all general FPL data and show me all forwards."
    - "Get my FPL team's details and history (team ID 2359318), forcing a refresh."
---

# FPL Data Access Skill

This skill allows an AI agent to fetch comprehensive data from the Fantasy Premier League (FPL) API. It includes scripts for general game-wide data, manager-specific entry data, fixtures, and live gameweek data. Outputs are JSON-formatted for programmatic consumption.

## Common Functionality

Shared behavior across scripts:

- Caching: API responses are cached under a `cache` directory located relative to the `fpl/scripts` directory by default. Cache files are named using a `fpl_cache_<key>.json` pattern.
- Force refresh: All scripts accept a `--force-refresh` flag which, when provided, forces a fresh fetch from the API and bypasses cache. ONLY USE FORCE REFRESH IF YOU REALLY NEED FRESH DATA LIKE YOU'RE GETTING LIVE GAMEWEEK DATA AND ONLY ON API CALLS THAT MIGHT HAVE SOME CHANGED DATA.
- Output format: All scripts produce JSON with the structure `{ "status": "success|info|error", "data": <payload>, "message": <optional> }`.

When reading per-script documentation below, assume `--force-refresh` and the JSON output format behave as described here.

## 1. General FPL Data (`fpl_data.py`)

Retrieve broad FPL data such as lists of all teams, players, or gameweeks, with various player filtering options.

### Arguments for `fpl_data.py`

* `--gameweeks`: Retrieves a list of all gameweeks (events) with details like ID, name, deadline, average score, and top-scoring player info. Example: `python fpl_data.py --gameweeks`

* `--teams`: Retrieves a list of all Premier League teams with their ID, name, short name, and strength rating. Example: `python fpl_data.py --teams`

* Player filtering: Use the following flags to query players and return matching results: `--player`, `--player-id`, `--player-ids`, `--team`, `--team-id`, `--position`, `--min-price`, `--max-price`. Example: `python fpl_data.py --position MID --min-price 6.0`
* `--player <PLAYER_NAME_PARTIAL>`: Filter players by partial/full name (case-insensitive). Example: `python fpl_data.py --player "Salah"`

* `--player-id <PLAYER_ID>`: Filter by player ID. Example: `python fpl_data.py --player-id 123`

* `--player-ids <PLAYER_IDS...>`: Filter by multiple player IDs (space-separated). Example: `python fpl_data.py --player-ids 123 456 789`

* `--team <TEAM_NAME_PARTIAL>`: Filter players by team name (resolves to team ID). Example: `python fpl_data.py --team "Arsenal"`

* `--team-id <TEAM_ID>`: Filter players by team ID. Example: `python fpl_data.py --team-id 1`

* `--position <POSITION_ABBREVIATION>`: Filter by position (`GKP`, `DEF`, `MID`, `FWD`). Example: `python fpl_data.py --position DEF`

* `--min-price <PRICE_FLOAT>` / `--max-price <PRICE_FLOAT>`: Price filters (in millions). Example: `python fpl_data.py --min-price 6.0 --max-price 8.5`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

---

## 2. FPL Manager Entry Data (`fpl_entry_data.py`)

Retrieve data for a specific FPL entry (manager/team). `entry_id` is required for relevant operations.

### Arguments for `fpl_entry_data.py`

* `entry_id <ENTRY_ID>` (required positional): The unique FPL team ID. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --details`

* `--details`: Fetch general entry details (team name, manager, overall points and rank). Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --details`

* `--history`: Retrieve historical performance per gameweek. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --history`

* `--transfers`: Retrieve the entry's transfer history. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --transfers`

* `--picks <GAMEWEEK_NUMBER>`: Retrieve the picks for a specific gameweek. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --picks 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

---

## 3. Fixtures Data (`fpl_fixture_data.py`)

Fetch fixtures for the season or a specific gameweek.

### Arguments for `fpl_fixture_data.py`

* `--fixtures`: Return the list of fixtures for the season. Example: `python fpl_fixture_data.py --fixtures`

* `--gameweek <N>`: Return fixtures for gameweek `N`. Example: `python fpl_fixture_data.py --gameweek 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

### Fixture output fields

Each fixture object returned by the script includes common fields from the API plus score information when available:

- `id`: Fixture ID
- `event`: Gameweek/event number
- `team_h`: Home team ID
- `team_a`: Away team ID
- `team_h_difficulty`, `team_a_difficulty`: Difficulty ratings
- `minutes`, `started`, `finished`: status flags
- `kickoff_time`: kickoff timestamp
- `team_h_score`, `team_a_score`: scores for each side (present when the match has finished or the API provides them)
- `score`: formatted string like `2-1` when both scores are available, otherwise `null`

---

## 4. Live Gameweek Data (`fpl_live_gameweek.py`)

Fetch live per-player and event statistics for a specific gameweek. The `--gameweek` argument is required.

### Arguments for `fpl_live_gameweek.py`

* `--gameweek <N>` (required): Fetch live data for the specified gameweek number `N`. Example: `python fpl_live_gameweek.py --gameweek 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

### Live output fields

The script returns a `live` object containing:

- `gameweek`: Provided gameweek number
- `elements`: Array of player live objects (`id`, `stats`, `explain`)
- `events`: Array of event-level summaries (`id`, `stats`)

Commit message:

Add ability to fetch league standings

fpl/SKILL.md, after:

name: FPL Data Access
description: Accesses comprehensive data from the Fantasy Premier League API, covering general game statistics (teams, players, gameweeks) and specific FPL manager entry details (history, transfers, picks).
tags:
    - FPL
    - Fantasy Premier League
    - Football
usage: |
    This skill provides access to multiple Python scripts for retrieving Fantasy Premier League (FPL) data. The AI agent should select the appropriate script based on the user's request. All outputs are in JSON format.
examples:
    - "Get all FPL teams"
    - "Show me all players with a price between 7.0m and 9.0m"
    - "Find midfielders from Liverpool"
    - "What are the details for Gameweek 18?"
    - "What's the overall rank for FPL team ID 2359318?"
    - "Show me the transfer history for my FPL team (ID 12345)"
    - "What players did FPL team 2359318 pick in Gameweek 24?"
    - "Force a refresh of all general FPL data and show me all forwards."
    - "Get my FPL team's details and history (team ID 2359318), forcing a refresh."
---

# FPL Data Access Skill

This skill allows an AI agent to fetch comprehensive data from the Fantasy Premier League (FPL) API. It includes scripts for general game-wide data, manager-specific entry data, fixtures, live gameweek data, and league standings. Outputs are JSON-formatted for programmatic consumption.

## Common Functionality

Shared behavior across scripts:

- Caching: API responses are cached under a `cache` directory located relative to the `fpl/scripts` directory by default. Cache files are named using a `fpl_cache_<key>.json` pattern.
- Force refresh: All scripts accept a `--force-refresh` flag which, when provided, forces a fresh fetch from the API and bypasses cache. ONLY USE FORCE REFRESH IF YOU REALLY NEED FRESH DATA LIKE YOU'RE GETTING LIVE GAMEWEEK DATA AND ONLY ON API CALLS THAT MIGHT HAVE SOME CHANGED DATA.
- Output format: All scripts produce JSON with the structure `{ "status": "success|info|error", "data": <payload>, "message": <optional> }`.

When reading per-script documentation below, assume `--force-refresh` and the JSON output format behave as described here.

## 1. General FPL Data (`fpl_data.py`)

Retrieve broad FPL data such as lists of all teams, players, or gameweeks, with various player filtering options.

### Arguments for `fpl_data.py`

* `--gameweeks`: Retrieves a list of all gameweeks (events) with details like ID, name, deadline, average score, and top-scoring player info. Example: `python fpl_data.py --gameweeks`

* `--teams`: Retrieves a list of all Premier League teams with their ID, name, short name, and strength rating. Example: `python fpl_data.py --teams`

* Player filtering: Use the following flags to query players and return matching results: `--player`, `--player-id`, `--player-ids`, `--team`, `--team-id`, `--position`, `--min-price`, `--max-price`. Example: `python fpl_data.py --position MID --min-price 6.0`

* `--player <PLAYER_NAME_PARTIAL>`: Filter players by partial/full name (case-insensitive). Example: `python fpl_data.py --player "Salah"`

* `--player-id <PLAYER_ID>`: Filter by player ID. Example: `python fpl_data.py --player-id 123`

* `--player-ids <PLAYER_IDS...>`: Filter by multiple player IDs (space-separated). Example: `python fpl_data.py --player-ids 123 456 789`

* `--team <TEAM_NAME_PARTIAL>`: Filter players by team name (resolves to team ID). Example: `python fpl_data.py --team "Arsenal"`

* `--team-id <TEAM_ID>`: Filter players by team ID. Example: `python fpl_data.py --team-id 1`

* `--position <POSITION_ABBREVIATION>`: Filter by position (`GKP`, `DEF`, `MID`, `FWD`). Example: `python fpl_data.py --position DEF`

* `--min-price <PRICE_FLOAT>` / `--max-price <PRICE_FLOAT>`: Price filters (in millions). Example: `python fpl_data.py --min-price 6.0 --max-price 8.5`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

---

## 2. FPL Manager Entry Data (`fpl_entry_data.py`)

Retrieve data for a specific FPL entry (manager/team). `entry_id` is required for relevant operations.

### Arguments for `fpl_entry_data.py`

* `entry_id <ENTRY_ID>` (required positional): The unique FPL team ID. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --details`

* `--details`: Fetch general entry details (team name, manager, overall points and rank). Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --details`

* `--history`: Retrieve historical performance per gameweek. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --history`

* `--transfers`: Retrieve the entry's transfer history. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --transfers`

* `--picks <GAMEWEEK_NUMBER>`: Retrieve the picks for a specific gameweek. Example: `python fpl_entry_data.py 2359318 --picks 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

---

## 3. Fixtures Data (`fpl_fixture_data.py`)

Fetch fixtures for the season or a specific gameweek.

### Arguments for `fpl_fixture_data.py`

* `--fixtures`: Return the list of fixtures for the season. Example: `python fpl_fixture_data.py --fixtures`

* `--gameweek <N>`: Return fixtures for gameweek `N`. Example: `python fpl_fixture_data.py --gameweek 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

### Fixture output fields

Each fixture object returned by the script includes common fields from the API plus score information when available:

- `id`: Fixture ID
- `event`: Gameweek/event number
- `team_h`: Home team ID
- `team_a`: Away team ID
- `team_h_difficulty`, `team_a_difficulty`: Difficulty ratings
- `minutes`, `started`, `finished`: status flags
- `kickoff_time`: kickoff timestamp
- `team_h_score`, `team_a_score`: scores for each side (present when the match has finished or the API provides them)
- `score`: formatted string like `2-1` when both scores are available, otherwise `null`

---

## 4. Live Gameweek Data (`fpl_live_gameweek.py`)

Fetch live per-player and event statistics for a specific gameweek. The `--gameweek` argument is required.

### Arguments for `fpl_live_gameweek.py`

* `--gameweek <N>` (required): Fetch live data for the specified gameweek number `N`. Example: `python fpl_live_gameweek.py --gameweek 24`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

### Live output fields

The script returns a `live` object containing:

- `gameweek`: Provided gameweek number
- `elements`: Array of player live objects (`id`, `stats`, `explain`)
- `events`: Array of event-level summaries (`id`, `stats`)

---

## 5. League Standings (`fpl_league_standings.py`)

Fetch classic league details and standings for a given league.

API endpoint:

- League standings: `https://fantasy.premierleague.com/api/leagues-classic/LID/standings/?page_standings=P` (replace `LID` with league id and `P` with page number)

### Arguments for `fpl_league_standings.py`

* `league_id` (required positional): The classic league ID to query. Example: `python fpl_league_standings.py 131049`

* `--page <N>`: The page of standings to fetch (default `1`). Example: `python fpl_league_standings.py 131049 --page 1`

* `--force-refresh`: See Common Functionality for caching and refresh behavior.

### Output fields

The script returns a JSON object containing:

- `league`: The league metadata returned by the API (name, id, etc.)
- `standings`: Array of simplified standing entries (rank, entry id, player_name, entry_name, total, event_total, last_rank, movement)
- `page`: Pagination information (`page`, `results`, `has_next`, `has_previous`)
